docs/operators/babylon_validators/babylon_validators.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: babylon_validators_sidebar
sidebar_label: Babylon Genesis Validators
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Babylon Genesis Validators

Babylon Genesis follows the Cosmos SDK and CometBFT consensus protocol. 

In Phase 2 Testnet, Babylon accepts chain Validators to join the network. 
The upper bound of active Validators is 100. However there is no limit 
on the total number of Validators.

## Prerequisites

- A synced Bitcoin full node
- At least 1.0 tBABY in your wallet for Phase 2 Testnet
- A system that satisfies the system requirements
for validator nodes

## Faucets 

There are two was to get tBABY for Phase 2 Testnet:

1. [Babylon Labs Discord Faucet](https://discord.com/channels/1266159481218457600/1266159481218457600)
2. [L2Scan Faucet (0.01 tBABY each request)](https://babylon-testnet.l2scan.co/faucet)
3. Request it from a Babylon Labs supporting staff or message us on [discord](https://discord.com/channels/1046686458070700112/1282600119346270281n). 

## Get Started

Follow the [installation guide](/operators/babylon_validators/installation_guide) to install and start your 
Babylon Genesis Validator journey.

Commit message:

removed all reference to l2scan

docs/operators/babylon_validators/babylon_validators.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: babylon_validators_sidebar
sidebar_label: Babylon Genesis Validators
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Babylon Genesis Validators

Babylon Genesis follows the Cosmos SDK and CometBFT consensus protocol. 

In Phase 2 Testnet, Babylon accepts chain Validators to join the network. 
The upper bound of active Validators is 100. However there is no limit 
on the total number of Validators.

## Prerequisites

- A synced Bitcoin full node
- At least 1.0 tBABY in your wallet for Phase 2 Testnet
- A system that satisfies the system requirements
for validator nodes

## Faucets 

There are two ways to get tBABY for Phase 2 Testnet:

1. [Babylon Labs Discord Faucet](https://discord.com/channels/1266159481218457600/1266159481218457600)
2. Request it from a Babylon Labs supporting staff or message us on [discord](https://discord.com/channels/1046686458070700112/1282600119346270281n). 

More faucets will be added in the future.

## Get Started

Follow the [installation guide](/operators/babylon_validators/installation_guide) to install and start your 
Babylon Genesis Validator journey.
