docs/bsns/bsns.mdx, before:

---
title: Bitcoin Supercharged Networks
sidebar_class_name: bitcoin_self_custodial_staking_sidebar
sidebar_label: Bitcoin Supercharged Networks
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

# What is a BSN?

Bitcoin Supercharged Networks (BSNs) are blockchain networks that leverage 
Bitcoin's security and liquidity through Babylon's native Bitcoin staking 
protocol. In addition to traditional Proof-of-Stake security mechanisms, 
BSNs ensure its blocks are final and unchangeable using Bitcoin as stake.

BSNs utilize multi-staking architecture that enables secure Bitcoin staking 
across multiple networks simultaneously. The technical foundation centers on 
three key aspects:

**Extractable One-Time Signatures (EOTS)** form the cryptographic backbone 
of BSNs. Built on Bitcoin's native Schnorr signature algorithm, EOTS 
enables slashing through cryptographic key extraction. When finality 
providers generate EOTS key pairs for each block height, any double-signing 
at the same height exposes their private key, enabling automatic slashing 
enforcement without requiring social consensus.

**Bitcoin Staking Contracts** operate directly on Bitcoin's blockchain 
using native UTXO scripting. These contracts have two spending conditions: 
a timelock condition allowing stakers to withdraw after a specified 
period, and a slashing condition that enables a covenant committee to 
burn staked Bitcoin if protocol violations are detected. This design 
maintains self-custody while ensuring cryptographic security guarantees.

**Babylon Genesis** serves as the control plane and first BSN 
implementation, orchestrating security and liquidity across the entire 
ecosystem. Built on Cosmos SDK with CosmWasm support, it provides the 
coordination layer for Bitcoin staking rewards distribution and 
cross-chain communication via IBC (Inter-Blockchain Communication) 
protocol.

<ThemedImage
  alt="BSN Architecture Diagram"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/bsn.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/bsn_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

## BSN Integration Explained

BSNs emerge from Babylon Labs' three-phase development strategy. Phase 1 
established native Bitcoin staking on Bitcoin mainnet. Phase 2 launched 
Babylon Genesis as the first BSN and control plane, implementing a dual 
security model combining Bitcoin staking with BABY token validation. 
Phase 3 enables the broader ecosystem expansion where L1s and L2s 
integrate the Babylon Bitcoin staking protocol.

The integration framework supports multiple blockchain architectures 
including Cosmos SDK chains through native IBC protocol support, OP Stack 
compatibility for Optimistic rollups, Arbitrum Stack integration for 
Layer 2 solutions.

BSNs gain access to Bitcoin's security through finality providers - 
delegated validators that sign blocks using EOTS signatures. When more 
than 2/3 of the Bitcoin stake signs a block, it achieves finality with 
Bitcoin-level security guarantees. This process happens independently of 
the base consensus mechanism, making BSNs compatible with any existing 
Proof-of-Stake implementation.

## Key Benefits of BSN Architecture

BSNs offer developers several compelling advantages over traditional 
blockchain networks:

- **Bitcoin-level security** provides unprecedented protection backed by 
  15+ years of proven network security and the world's largest 
  cryptocurrency market capitalization
- **Fast finality** combines Proof-of-Stake efficiency with Bitcoin 
  security, enabling quick transaction confirmation while maintaining 
  robust security guarantees
- **Trustless operation** eliminates the need for wrapped tokens, 
  bridges, or custodial solutions
- **Capital efficiency** allows a single Bitcoin stake to secure 
  multiple networks simultaneously
- **Modular integration** enables BSNs to work with any Proof-of-Stake 
  consensus mechanism without requiring changes to existing blockchain 
  architectures
- **Liquid staking tokens (LSTs)** provide liquidity while maintaining 
  staking benefits, enabling DeFi participation and yield optimization 
  strategies

## Differences from Traditional Blockchains

Traditional blockchain networks face the cold-start problem where new 
networks struggle to attract sufficient validators and stake to ensure 
security. BSNs solve this by providing immediate access to Bitcoin's 
established security model.

### Security Model
While traditional networks depend on their native token's value and 
validator set size, BSNs inherit Bitcoin's proven security backed by the 
world's most secure blockchain. This provides stronger guarantees against 
attacks and reduces the risk of security failures during network growth 
phases.

### Liquidity Access
Traditional networks are limited to their native token holders and 
ecosystem participants, while BSNs can tap into Bitcoin's massive 
liquidity pool. This enables deeper markets, more stable economics, and 
broader participation from Bitcoin holders who previously couldn't 
participate in staking.

### Decentralization
BSNs benefit from Bitcoin's globally distributed mining network and 
established validator ecosystem. Rather than building validator networks 
from scratch, BSNs leverage Bitcoin's existing decentralization, 
providing stronger censorship resistance and geographic distribution.

## Unique Features

- **Better economic security**: Native BTC staked to protect the rollup 
  and improve its economic security, especially important for new 
  OP-stack chains with fewer adoption. The staked BTC achieves slashable 
  safety, where equivocations by L2 sequencers are held accountable and 
  the BTC stake is slashable, even when equivocating L2 sequencers 
  constitute a majority.

- **Fast finality**: Improved economic security benefits OP stack 
  chains for fast finality. If users trust votes backed by BTC stake, 
  they can confirm transactions without waiting for the lengthy 
  challenging period in optimistic rollups.

- **Reorg resilience of L2 transactions**: Once a transaction is 
  included in an L2 block signed by the majority of BTC-backed 
  Finality Providers, the sequencer cannot publish a different L2 block 
  at the same height on L1.

## Bitcoin Staking Security Model for BSNs

The security model combines Bitcoin's proven Proof-of-Work foundation 
with efficient Proof-of-Stake consensus:

- **Slashing mechanisms** ensure that any safety violations by finality 
  providers result in automatic penalties through the EOTS signature 
  system
- **Timestamping security** anchors BSN events to Bitcoin's blockchain, 
  providing immutable checkpoints that prevent long-range attacks
- **Economic security** scales with Bitcoin's market capitalization, 
  providing substantial economic barriers to attacks
- **Isolation boundaries** prevent security issues in one BSN from 
  affecting others
- **Chain-specific parameters** allow customization of slashing 
  conditions and security requirements

## BSN Integration Support

Babylon provides everything a BSN needs to integrate quickly, from 
ready-made modules to hands-on development and business support.

### Developer Tools
- **Babylon SDK** – Reference Cosmos SDK modules for BSN integration
- **babylond CLI** – Command-line tools for node operations and 
  network interaction
- **EOTS Manager** – Secure cryptographic key management
- **Finality Provider Daemon (fpd)** – Validator operations and block 
  signing
- **Testing & Deployment** – Edge Devnet, Bitcoin Signet testnet, 
  token faucets, and Docker-based local environments

### Reference Implementation
- **Existing Standards** – Integration follows established Cosmos SDK, 
  CosmWasm, and Bitcoin staking standards
- **Ready-to-Use Contracts** – Deploy `babylon_contract.wasm`, 
  `btc_staking.wasm`, and `btc_finality.wasm`
- **Bridge Module** – `x/babylon` connects Cosmos SDK and CosmWasm 
  contracts
- **IBC Support** – Preconfigured for Babylon network communication

With these tools and reference modules, BSNs avoid building from scratch 
and can focus on network features instead of foundational infrastructure.

### Development & BD Support
Our team provides:
- Technical guidance for integration and testing
- Business development support to connect BSNs with partners, stakers, 
  and ecosystem programs

Contact our BD team to discuss BSN integration.

## Integration Guides

<Link to="/bsns/cosmos_chains">
  Cosmos Chain Integration Guide
</Link>

<Link to="/bsns/op_stack_chains">
  OP-stack L2 Chain Integration Guide
</Link>

Commit message:

chore: update babylon docs category keywords

docs/bsns/bsns.mdx, after:

---
title: Bitcoin Supercharged Networks
sidebar_class_name: bitcoin_self_custodial_staking_sidebar
sidebar_label: Bitcoin Supercharged Networks
sidebar_position: 1
keywords:
  - Bitcoin Supercharged Networks integration
  - Shared security for consumer chains
  - Finality provider marketplace
  - CosmWasm contracts for BSN
  - IBC channel setup for BSN
  - Reorg resilience with Bitcoin
  - Checkpoint verification for BSN
  - Zone concierge metadata
---

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

# What is a BSN?

Bitcoin Supercharged Networks (BSNs) are blockchain networks that leverage 
Bitcoin's security and liquidity through Babylon's native Bitcoin staking 
protocol. In addition to traditional Proof-of-Stake security mechanisms, 
BSNs ensure its blocks are final and unchangeable using Bitcoin as stake.

BSNs utilize multi-staking architecture that enables secure Bitcoin staking 
across multiple networks simultaneously. The technical foundation centers on 
three key aspects:

**Extractable One-Time Signatures (EOTS)** form the cryptographic backbone 
of BSNs. Built on Bitcoin's native Schnorr signature algorithm, EOTS 
enables slashing through cryptographic key extraction. When finality 
providers generate EOTS key pairs for each block height, any double-signing 
at the same height exposes their private key, enabling automatic slashing 
enforcement without requiring social consensus.

**Bitcoin Staking Contracts** operate directly on Bitcoin's blockchain 
using native UTXO scripting. These contracts have two spending conditions: 
a timelock condition allowing stakers to withdraw after a specified 
period, and a slashing condition that enables a covenant committee to 
burn staked Bitcoin if protocol violations are detected. This design 
maintains self-custody while ensuring cryptographic security guarantees.

**Babylon Genesis** serves as the control plane and first BSN 
implementation, orchestrating security and liquidity across the entire 
ecosystem. Built on Cosmos SDK with CosmWasm support, it provides the 
coordination layer for Bitcoin staking rewards distribution and 
cross-chain communication via IBC (Inter-Blockchain Communication) 
protocol.

<ThemedImage
  alt="BSN Architecture Diagram"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/bsn.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/bsn_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

## BSN Integration Explained

BSNs emerge from Babylon Labs' three-phase development strategy. Phase 1 
established native Bitcoin staking on Bitcoin mainnet. Phase 2 launched 
Babylon Genesis as the first BSN and control plane, implementing a dual 
security model combining Bitcoin staking with BABY token validation. 
Phase 3 enables the broader ecosystem expansion where L1s and L2s 
integrate the Babylon Bitcoin staking protocol.

The integration framework supports multiple blockchain architectures 
including Cosmos SDK chains through native IBC protocol support, OP Stack 
compatibility for Optimistic rollups, Arbitrum Stack integration for 
Layer 2 solutions.

BSNs gain access to Bitcoin's security through finality providers - 
delegated validators that sign blocks using EOTS signatures. When more 
than 2/3 of the Bitcoin stake signs a block, it achieves finality with 
Bitcoin-level security guarantees. This process happens independently of 
the base consensus mechanism, making BSNs compatible with any existing 
Proof-of-Stake implementation.

## Key Benefits of BSN Architecture

BSNs offer developers several compelling advantages over traditional 
blockchain networks:

- **Bitcoin-level security** provides unprecedented protection backed by 
  15+ years of proven network security and the world's largest 
  cryptocurrency market capitalization
- **Fast finality** combines Proof-of-Stake efficiency with Bitcoin 
  security, enabling quick transaction confirmation while maintaining 
  robust security guarantees
- **Trustless operation** eliminates the need for wrapped tokens, 
  bridges, or custodial solutions
- **Capital efficiency** allows a single Bitcoin stake to secure 
  multiple networks simultaneously
- **Modular integration** enables BSNs to work with any Proof-of-Stake 
  consensus mechanism without requiring changes to existing blockchain 
  architectures
- **Liquid staking tokens (LSTs)** provide liquidity while maintaining 
  staking benefits, enabling DeFi participation and yield optimization 
  strategies

## Differences from Traditional Blockchains

Traditional blockchain networks face the cold-start problem where new 
networks struggle to attract sufficient validators and stake to ensure 
security. BSNs solve this by providing immediate access to Bitcoin's 
established security model.

### Security Model
While traditional networks depend on their native token's value and 
validator set size, BSNs inherit Bitcoin's proven security backed by the 
world's most secure blockchain. This provides stronger guarantees against 
attacks and reduces the risk of security failures during network growth 
phases.

### Liquidity Access
Traditional networks are limited to their native token holders and 
ecosystem participants, while BSNs can tap into Bitcoin's massive 
liquidity pool. This enables deeper markets, more stable economics, and 
broader participation from Bitcoin holders who previously couldn't 
participate in staking.

### Decentralization
BSNs benefit from Bitcoin's globally distributed mining network and 
established validator ecosystem. Rather than building validator networks 
from scratch, BSNs leverage Bitcoin's existing decentralization, 
providing stronger censorship resistance and geographic distribution.

## Unique Features

- **Better economic security**: Native BTC staked to protect the rollup 
  and improve its economic security, especially important for new 
  OP-stack chains with fewer adoption. The staked BTC achieves slashable 
  safety, where equivocations by L2 sequencers are held accountable and 
  the BTC stake is slashable, even when equivocating L2 sequencers 
  constitute a majority.

- **Fast finality**: Improved economic security benefits OP stack 
  chains for fast finality. If users trust votes backed by BTC stake, 
  they can confirm transactions without waiting for the lengthy 
  challenging period in optimistic rollups.

- **Reorg resilience of L2 transactions**: Once a transaction is 
  included in an L2 block signed by the majority of BTC-backed 
  Finality Providers, the sequencer cannot publish a different L2 block 
  at the same height on L1.

## Bitcoin Staking Security Model for BSNs

The security model combines Bitcoin's proven Proof-of-Work foundation 
with efficient Proof-of-Stake consensus:

- **Slashing mechanisms** ensure that any safety violations by finality 
  providers result in automatic penalties through the EOTS signature 
  system
- **Timestamping security** anchors BSN events to Bitcoin's blockchain, 
  providing immutable checkpoints that prevent long-range attacks
- **Economic security** scales with Bitcoin's market capitalization, 
  providing substantial economic barriers to attacks
- **Isolation boundaries** prevent security issues in one BSN from 
  affecting others
- **Chain-specific parameters** allow customization of slashing 
  conditions and security requirements

## BSN Integration Support

Babylon provides everything a BSN needs to integrate quickly, from 
ready-made modules to hands-on development and business support.

### Developer Tools
- **Babylon SDK** – Reference Cosmos SDK modules for BSN integration
- **babylond CLI** – Command-line tools for node operations and 
  network interaction
- **EOTS Manager** – Secure cryptographic key management
- **Finality Provider Daemon (fpd)** – Validator operations and block 
  signing
- **Testing & Deployment** – Edge Devnet, Bitcoin Signet testnet, 
  token faucets, and Docker-based local environments

### Reference Implementation
- **Existing Standards** – Integration follows established Cosmos SDK, 
  CosmWasm, and Bitcoin staking standards
- **Ready-to-Use Contracts** – Deploy `babylon_contract.wasm`, 
  `btc_staking.wasm`, and `btc_finality.wasm`
- **Bridge Module** – `x/babylon` connects Cosmos SDK and CosmWasm 
  contracts
- **IBC Support** – Preconfigured for Babylon network communication

With these tools and reference modules, BSNs avoid building from scratch 
and can focus on network features instead of foundational infrastructure.

### Development & BD Support
Our team provides:
- Technical guidance for integration and testing
- Business development support to connect BSNs with partners, stakers, 
  and ecosystem programs

Contact our BD team to discuss BSN integration.

## Integration Guides

<Link to="/bsns/cosmos_chains">
  Cosmos Chain Integration Guide
</Link>

<Link to="/bsns/op_stack_chains">
  OP-stack L2 Chain Integration Guide
</Link>
