docs/guides/overview/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: guide_sidebar_index
sidebar_label: Overview
---

# Babylon Bitcoin Staking Protocol Overview

Babylon is a decentralized system that enables native Bitcoin staking directly 
on the Bitcoin blockchain without intermediaries. The protocol implements a novel 
shared-security architecture that extends Bitcoin's security model to the broader 
decentralized ecosystem. Through its architecture, BTC holders can participate in 
multi-staking operations while maintaining their assets on the Bitcoin network, 
providing verifiable security guarantees to Bitcoin Secured Networks (BSNs).

The protocol's primary function is to enhance Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus security by 
implementing Bitcoin staking mechanisms. Through cryptographic primitives and 
protocol-level innovations, Babylon protocol enables trustless Bitcoin staking with 
efficient unbonding periods.

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';

<div className="flex flex-col items-center justify-center">
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Overview of Babylon Systems"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/overview.png'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/overview_dark.png'),
    }}
  />
  <em>Babylon Overview</em><br/>
</div>

Key features of Babylon Protocol:

-  Trustless staking architecture - BTC remains native with no wrapped assets
-  Optimized unbonding - Stake withdrawal period of just a few days
-  Configurable slashing parameters - Protocol violations trigger predetermined penalties
-  Modular security design - Compatible with any PoS consensus implementation

When implemented at scale, Bitcoin represents the largest potential staking capital 
pool in the cryptocurrency ecosystem.

## Core Concepts 

<CardSection
  id="core-concepts"
>
  <Card
    title="Bitcoin Staking"
    to="/guides/overview/bitcoin_staking"
  />
  <Card
    title="Bitcoin Secured Systems (BSNs)"
    to="/guides/overview/bitcoin_secured_networks"
  />
  <Card
    title="Babylon Genesis"
    to="/guides/overview/babylon_genesis"
  />
  <Card
    title="Phases of the Launch"
    to="/guides/overview/phases_of_the_launch"
  />
</CardSection>

## Multi-staking Architecture

The Babylon multi-staking architecture enables secure BTC staking across 
multiple networks simultaneously. The system implements integration endpoints for any 
BSN requiring economic security guarantees. The architecture comprises cryptographic 
mechanisms that ensure:

- Reliable cross-chain data synchronization
- Secure inter-chain message passing
- Robust asset locking mechanisms
- Automated reward distribution
- Configurable slashing capabilities

Read more on modules of the multi-staking architecture [here](/guides/architecture/).

## Bitcoin Secured Networks (BSNs)

The Babylon multi-staked Bitcoins are used to secure BSNs. BSNs can be very broad, 
they are any system that requires finality that has a data-driven application. 
In most cases, a BSN is a blockchain of anykind. For example an L1 or L2 rollup 
chain. It can also be versatile such as a DeFi protocol, blockchain infrastructure 
project like a swap or bridge, or a decentralized network such as a compute network, 
they are any system that requires finality that has a data-driven application. 
In most cases, a BSN is a blockchain of anykind. For example an L1 or L2 rollup 
chain. It can also be versatile such as a DeFi protocol, blockchain infrastructure 
project like a swap or bridge, or a decentralized network such as a compute network, 
etc. 

Read more on how to integrate BSNs with Babylon [here](/guides/overview/bitcoin_secured_networks).

## Security Specifications

Babylon Network implements the following security guarantees:

- **Slashable PoS Security:** Security violations trigger automatic slashing of a portion 
of the Bitcoin stake.
- **Staker's Security:** Staked Bitcoin remains recoverable contingent on network 
compliance by the staker or delegated validator.
- **Withdrawal Assurance:** Unbonding operations execute securely without requiring 
consensus coordination.

## Technical Integration

For developers looking to integrate to Babylon network or integration partners, we 
provide a comprehensive set of tools and documentation to help you get started. 

* [Babylon node](/operators/babylon_node/installation_guide)
* [Babylon RPC](/api/babylon-gRPC/babylon-grpc-api-docs)
* [Babylon SDK (Cosmos SDK reference smart contracts)](/developers/bsns/cosmos_chains/babylon_sdk)

Interchain communication is handled through [IBC protocol](https://tutorials.cosmos.network/academy/3-ibc/).

## Deploy on Babylon Genesis

Babylon Genesis implements a Cosmos SDK-based blockchain with native IBC (Inter-
Blockchain Communication) protocol support. Babylon Genesis will be the first 
Bitcoin Secured Network (BSN) and will serve as the control plane for security 
and liquidity orchestration to other BSNs to come.   

For smart contract deployment, Babylon Genesis provides CosmWasm compatibility. 
Developers familiar with the Cosmos ecosystem can deploy standard contracts (e.g., 
CW-20 implementations) through trusted RPC endpoints.

More about Babylon Genesis [here](/developers/babylon_genesis_chain).

## Getting Started

To get started with staking on Babylon Genesis & BSNs, please refer to the 
[BTC Staking page](/guides/btc_stakers/).

Commit message:

updated wording slightly
- "BSN Systems" -> "BSNs"
- "Babylon system" -> "Babylon Bitcoin Staking Protocol"
- update copy on overview.mdx

docs/guides/overview/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: guide_sidebar_index
sidebar_label: Overview
---

# Babylon Bitcoin Staking Protocol Overview

Babylon is a decentralized protocol that enables native bitcoin staking directly 
on the Bitcoin blockchain without intermediaries. The protocol implements a novel 
shared-security architecture that extends Bitcoin's security model to the broader 
decentralized ecosystem. Through its architecture, BTC holders can participate in 
multi-staking operations while maintaining their assets on Bitcoin, 
providing verifiable security guarantees to Bitcoin Secured Networks (BSNs).

The protocol's primary function is to enhance Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus security by 
implementing Bitcoin staking mechanisms. Through cryptographic primitives and 
protocol-level innovations, Babylon protocol enables trustless Bitcoin staking with 
efficient unbonding periods.

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';

<div className="flex flex-col items-center justify-center">
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Overview of Babylon Bitcoin Statking Protocol"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/overview.png'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/overview_dark.png'),
    }}
  />
  <em>Babylon Overview</em><br/>
</div>

Key features of Babylon Bitcoin Staking Protocol:

-  Trustless staking architecture - BTC remains native with no wrapped assets
-  Fast unbonding - Stake withdrawal period of just a few days
-  Configurable slashing - Protocol violations trigger configrable penalties
-  Modular security - Compatible with any PoS consensus implementation

When implemented at scale, Bitcoin represents the largest potential staking capital 
pool in the web3 ecosystem.

## Core Concepts 

<CardSection
  id="core-concepts"
>
  <Card
    title="Bitcoin Staking"
    to="/guides/overview/bitcoin_staking"
  />
  <Card
    title="Bitcoin Secured Systems (BSNs)"
    to="/guides/overview/bitcoin_secured_networks"
  />
  <Card
    title="Babylon Genesis"
    to="/guides/overview/babylon_genesis"
  />
  <Card
    title="Phases of the Launch"
    to="/guides/overview/phases_of_the_launch"
  />
</CardSection>

## Multi-staking Architecture

The Babylon multi-staking architecture enables secure BTC staking across 
multiple networks simultaneously. The system implements integration endpoints for any 
BSN requiring economic security guarantees. The architecture comprises cryptographic 
mechanisms that ensure:

- Reliable cross-chain data synchronization
- Secure inter-chain message passing
- Robust asset locking mechanisms
- Automated reward distribution
- Configurable slashing

Read more on modules of the multi-staking architecture [here](/guides/architecture/).

## Bitcoin Secured Networks (BSNs)

The Babylon multi-staked bitcoins are used to secure BSNs. BSNs can be very broad, 
they are any system that requires finality that has a data-driven application. 
In most cases, a BSN is a blockchain of anykind. For example an L1 or L2 rollup 
chain. It can also be versatile such as a DeFi protocol, blockchain infrastructure 
project like a swap or bridge, or a decentralized network such as a compute network, 
they are any system that requires finality that has a data-driven application. 
In most cases, a BSN is a blockchain of anykind. For example an L1 or L2 rollup 
chain. It can also be versatile such as a DeFi protocol, blockchain infrastructure 
project like a swap or bridge, or a decentralized network such as a compute network, 
etc. 

Read more on how to integrate BSNs with Babylon [here](/guides/overview/bitcoin_secured_networks).

## Security Specifications

Babylon Network implements the following security guarantees:

- **PoS Security:** Security violations trigger automatic slashing of a portion 
of the Bitcoin stake.
- **Staker's Security:** Staked Bitcoin remains recoverable contingent on network 
compliance by the staker or delegated validator.
- **Withdrawal Assurance:** Unbonding operations execute securely without requiring 
consensus coordination.

## Technical Integration

For developers looking to integrate to Babylon protocol, we 
provide a comprehensive set of tools and documentation to help you get started. 

* [Babylon node](/operators/babylon_node/installation_guide)
* [Babylon RPC](/api/babylon-gRPC/babylon-grpc-api-docs)
* [Babylon SDK (Cosmos SDK reference smart contracts)](/developers/bsns/cosmos_chains/babylon_sdk)

Interchain communication is handled through [IBC protocol](https://tutorials.cosmos.network/academy/3-ibc/).

## Babylon Genesis Chain

Babylon Genesis implements a Cosmos SDK-based blockchain with native IBC (Inter-
Blockchain Communication) protocol support. Babylon Genesis will be the first 
BSN and will serve as the control plane for BTC security 
and liquidity orchestration to other BSNs to come.   

For smart contract deployment, Babylon Genesis provides CosmWasm compatibility. 
Developers familiar with the Cosmos ecosystem can deploy standard contracts (e.g., 
CW-20 implementations) through trusted  or self-hosted RPC endpoints.

More about Babylon Genesis [here](/developers/babylon_genesis_chain).
