docs/operators/vigilantes/vigilantes.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: vigilantes_sidebar
sidebar_label: Vigilantes Operators
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Vigilantes Operators

The Babylon network is monitored by the Babylon Validators and Vigilantes. They are 
critical infrastructure participants in the Babylon network who play a crucial role 
in maintaining synchronization between Bitcoin and the Babbylon Genesis. They form a 
decentralized network that ensures reliability by active monitoring and reporting.

There is no centralized coordination of vigilantes. Operators can also be running chain validator 
nodes or finality providers. 

## Core Responsibilities

There are three main responsibilities of vigilantes:

1. Corss-chain relay - ensures data between Bitcoin and Babbylon Genesiss are accurate 
and synchronized in timely mannger.
2. Bitcoin Timestamping - help record and verify Bitcoin block headers on Babbylon Genesis
3. Monitor integrity - maintain reliable and trustless setup of Babylon protocol

## Prerequisites

- A synced Bitcoin full node
- A synced Babylon full node
- A system that satisfies minimum requirements

## Economic Incentives
While Vigilantes are crucial to the network's operation, the current Babylon protocol 
is still developing its comprehensive incentive mechanism. Early participants contribute 
to the network's robustness and may be positioned advantageously for future reward structures.

## Operational Considerations

To reliably run a vigilante program, the following considerations are important:
- Consistent uptime
- Regular software updates
- Secure key management
- Network connectivity

## Installation Guide

Follow the [installation guide](/operators/vigilantes/installation_guide) to install and run a vigilante program.

Commit message:

Update vigilantes.mdx (#55)
- Corrected spelling of "Babbylon" to "Babylon"
- "Babbylon Genesiss" corrected to "Babylon Genesis"
- "Corss-chain" corrected to "Cross-chain"
- "mannger" corrected to "manner"
- Capitalization of "Vigilantes" throughout the document
- Changed "by active monitoring" to "through active monitoring" for improved readability.

docs/operators/vigilantes/vigilantes.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: vigilantes_sidebar
sidebar_label: Vigilantes Operators
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Vigilantes Operators

The Babylon network is monitored by Babylon Validators and Vigilantes. They are 
critical infrastructure participants in the Babylon network who play a crucial role 
in maintaining synchronization between Bitcoin and Babylon Genesis. They form a 
decentralized network that ensures reliability through active monitoring and reporting.

There is no centralized coordination of Vigilantes. Operators can also be running chain Validator 
nodes or Finality Providers. 

## Core Responsibilities

There are three main responsibilities of Vigilantes:

1. Cross-chain relay - ensures data between Bitcoin and Babylon Genesis are accurate 
and synchronized in timely manner.
2. Bitcoin Timestamping - helps record and verify Bitcoin block headers on Babylon Genesis.
3. Monitor integrity - maintains reliable and trustless setup of the Babylon protocol.

## Prerequisites

- A synced Bitcoin full node
- A synced Babylon full node
- A system that satisfies minimum requirements

## Economic Incentives
While Vigilantes are crucial to the network's operation, the current Babylon protocol 
is still developing its comprehensive incentive mechanism. Early participants contribute 
to the network's robustness and may be positioned advantageously for future reward structures.

## Operational Considerations

To reliably run a Vigilante program, the following considerations are important:
- Consistent uptime
- Regular software updates
- Secure key management
- Network connectivity

## Installation Guide

Follow the [installation guide](/operators/vigilantes/installation_guide) to install and run a vigilante program.
