docs/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/baby_faucets.mdx, before:

---
title: BABY Faucets
sidebar_class_name: baby_faucets_sidebar
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: BABY Faucets
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';


# Getting Testnet BABYs

A list of faucets is available for developers to claim testnet BABY tokens.

- [Hoodscan.io Babylon Testnet Faucet](https://faucet.hoodscan.io/)
- [L2Scan Babylon Testnet Faucet](https://faucet.l2scan.io/babylon)


## HoodScan tBABY Faucet

To claim testnet tokens from the HoodScan tBABY Faucet, you will need to:

1. Create a testnet BABY wallet account to obtain a wallet address.
2. Visit the [HoodScan tBABY Faucet](https://faucet.hoodscan.io/) and in 
the chain selection dropdown, select "Babylon Testnet".
3. Select your wallet provider.
4. Click the "Claim tBABY" button.

<div className="text-center">
  <ThemedImage
    alt="HoodScan Baby Faucet"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/hoodscan_baby_faucet.png'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/hoodscan_baby_faucet_dark.png'),
    }}
    width="80%"
  />
</div>

## L2Scan tBABY Faucet

To claim testnet tokens from the L2Scan tBABY Faucet, you will need to:

1. Create a testnet BABY wallet account to obtain a wallet address.
2. Visit the [L2Scan tBABY Faucet](https://faucet.l2scan.io/babylon)
3. Sign in with your web2 account or web3 wallet address. 
4. Enter your wallet address and click the "Get tBABY" button.

<div className="text-center">
  <ThemedImage
    alt="L2scan Baby Faucet"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/l2scan_baby_faucet.png'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/l2scan_baby_faucet.png'),
    }}
    width="80%"
  />
</div>

<br/>

:::note
Note that these testnet tokens have no real value and are not eligible for mainnet's staking or voting.
:::

Commit message:

improvements to baby_faucets.mdx
- corrected the L2Scan Faucet links
- added IT Rocket Faucet

docs/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/baby_faucets.mdx, after:

---
title: BABY Faucets
sidebar_class_name: baby_faucets_sidebar
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: BABY Faucets
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';


# Getting Testnet BABYs

A list of faucets is available for developers to claim testnet BABY tokens.

- [Hoodscan.io Babylon Testnet Faucet](https://faucet.hoodscan.io/)
- [L2Scan Babylon Testnet Faucet](https://babylon-testnet.l2scan.co/faucet)
- [IT Rocket Babylon Testnet Faucet](https://testnet.itrocket.net/babylon/faucet)

## HoodScan tBABY Faucet

To claim testnet tokens from the HoodScan tBABY Faucet, you will need to:

1. Create a testnet BABY wallet account to obtain a wallet address.
2. Visit the [HoodScan tBABY Faucet](https://faucet.hoodscan.io/) and in 
the chain selection dropdown, select "Babylon Testnet".
3. Select your wallet provider.
4. Click the "Claim tBABY" button.

<div className="text-center">
  <ThemedImage
    alt="HoodScan Baby Faucet"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/hoodscan_baby_faucet.png'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/hoodscan_baby_faucet_dark.png'),
    }}
    width="80%"
  />
</div>

## L2Scan tBABY Faucet

To claim testnet tokens from the L2Scan tBABY Faucet, you will need to:

1. Create a testnet BABY wallet account to obtain a wallet address.
2. Visit the [L2Scan tBABY Faucet](https://babylon-testnet.l2scan.co/faucet)
3. Sign in with your web2 account or web3 wallet address. 
4. Enter your wallet address and click the "Get tBABY" button.

<div className="text-center">
  <ThemedImage
    alt="L2scan Baby Faucet"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/l2scan_baby_faucet.png'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/l2scan_baby_faucet.png'),
    }}
    width="80%"
  />
</div>

## IT Rocket tBABY Faucet 

To claim testnet tokens from the IT Rocket tBABY Faucet, you will need to:

1. Create a testnet BABY wallet account to obtain a wallet address.
2. Visit the [IT Rocket tBABY Faucet](https://testnet.itrocket.net/babylon/faucet)
3. Enter your wallet address and click the "GET TOKENS" button.

<div className="text-center">
  <ThemedImage
    alt="IT Rocket Baby Faucet"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/itrocket_baby_faucet.png'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/developers/babylon_genesis_chain/itrocket_baby_faucet_dark.png'),
    }}
    width="80%"
  />
</div>


Claim Rules: 0.02 tBABY each request and no more than 1 tBABY every 24 Hours per 
IP addresss or wallet address.

<br/>

:::note
Note that these testnet tokens have no real value and are not eligible for mainnet's staking or voting.
:::
