docs/guides/btc_stakers/btc_staking_tools.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: btc_staking_tools_sidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

# BTC Staking Tools

There are a number of tools and services that will support Babylon BTC Staking.

## Wallets
A list of browser extension or mobile wallets that will support Babylon BTC Staking.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="extension" label="Extension Wallets" default>
    | Wallet | BTC Staking | Reward Claiming |
    |--------|-------------|-----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Onekey (Hardware) | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Cactus | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Keystone (Hardware) | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Fordefi | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Ledger | ❌ | ❌ |
    | Xverse | ✅ | ❌ |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Binance | ✅ | ✅ |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Coldlar | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Ngrave | ❌ | ❌ |
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile Wallets">
    | Wallet | BTC Staking | Reward Claiming |
    |--------|-------------|-----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Onekey (Hardware) | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Binance | ✅ | ✅ |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ✅ |
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Custody Services

A list of custody services or platforms that will support BTC Staking.

| Custody | BTC Staking |
|---------|-------------|
| Anchorage | ✅ |
| Hex Trust | ✅ |
| Cobo | ✅ |
| Chainup | ✅ |
| Ceffu | ✅ |
| Amber | ✅ |
| Coinbase | ❌ |
| Bitgo | ❌ |

## Exchange

A list of crypto exchanges that will support BTC Staking.

| Exchange | BTC Staking |
|----------|-------------|
| Binance | ✅ |
| Bitrue | ✅ |
| OKX | ✅ |
| Gate | ✅ |
| Bitget | ✅ |
| Bybit | ❌ |
| CoinEX | ✅ |
| Kucoin | ❌ |
| BingX | ❌ |

## Liquid Staking Token Projects

A list of liquid staking token project that will support BTC Staking.

| LST Project | BTC Staking |
|-------------|-------------|
| Lombard: LBTC | ✅ |
| Solv: SolvBTC.BBN | ✅ |
| PumpBTC | ✅ |
| Bedrock: UniBTC | ✅ |
| Lorenzo: stBTC | ✅ |
| Acorn (Amber): aBTC | ✅ |
| Babypie: mBTC | ✅ |
| pSTAKE: yBTC | ✅ |
| Kinza: kBTC | ✅ |

## Staking Platforms

Other staking platforms that offer Babylon BTC staking.

| Platform | BTC Staking |
|----------|-------------|
| Staking Rewards | ✅ |

Where:
- ✅ - indicates the feature is supported.
- ❌ - indicates the feature is not currently supported.

:::note
The above list is not exhaustive and is subject to change. Please check the official documentation of the staking tools for the latest information.
:::

Commit message:

small fixes
- revered web_staking compatibility
- added hardware wallet label

docs/guides/btc_stakers/btc_staking_tools.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: btc_staking_tools_sidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

# BTC Staking Tools

There are a number of tools and services that will support Babylon BTC Staking.

## Wallets
A list of browser extension or mobile wallets that will support Babylon BTC Staking.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="extension" label="Extension Wallets" default>
    | Wallet | BTC Staking | Reward Claiming |
    |--------|-------------|-----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Onekey <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Cactus | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Keystone <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Fordefi | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Ledger | ❌ | ❌ |
    | Xverse | ✅ | ❌ |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Binance | ✅ | ✅ |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Coldlar | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Ngrave | ❌ | ❌ |
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile Wallets">
    | Wallet | BTC Staking | Reward Claiming |
    |--------|-------------|-----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Onekey <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ✅ |
    | Binance | ✅ | ✅ |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ✅ |
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Custody Services

A list of custody services or platforms that will support BTC Staking.

| Custody | BTC Staking |
|---------|-------------|
| Anchorage | ✅ |
| Hex Trust | ✅ |
| Cobo | ✅ |
| Chainup | ✅ |
| Ceffu | ✅ |
| Amber | ✅ |
| Coinbase | ❌ |
| Bitgo | ❌ |

## Exchange

A list of crypto exchanges that will support BTC Staking.

| Exchange | BTC Staking |
|----------|-------------|
| Binance | ✅ |
| Bitrue | ✅ |
| OKX | ✅ |
| Gate | ✅ |
| Bitget | ✅ |
| Bybit | ❌ |
| CoinEX | ✅ |
| Kucoin | ❌ |
| BingX | ❌ |

## Liquid Staking Token Projects

A list of liquid staking token project that will support BTC Staking.

| LST Project | BTC Staking |
|-------------|-------------|
| Lombard: LBTC | ✅ |
| Solv: SolvBTC.BBN | ✅ |
| PumpBTC | ✅ |
| Bedrock: UniBTC | ✅ |
| Lorenzo: stBTC | ✅ |
| Acorn (Amber): aBTC | ✅ |
| Babypie: mBTC | ✅ |
| pSTAKE: yBTC | ✅ |
| Kinza: kBTC | ✅ |

## Staking Platforms

Other staking platforms that offer Babylon BTC staking.

| Platform | BTC Staking |
|----------|-------------|
| Staking Rewards | ✅ |

Where:
- ✅ - indicates the feature is supported.
- ❌ - indicates the feature is not currently supported.
- <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> - indicates that the wallet is a hardware wallet.

:::note
The above list is not exhaustive and is subject to change. Please check the official documentation of the staking tools for the latest information.
:::
