docs/stakers/btc_stakers/native_staking/web_staking.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: bitcoin_self_custodial_staking_sidebar
sidebar_label: Web Staking
sidebar_position: 1
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import HardwareBadge from '@site/src/components/badge/hardware';

# Staking via web app

Babylon Labs provides a web dApp (BTC Staking Dashboard) for staking BTC to the Babylon Genesis chain.
Following is a step by step guide to stake BTC using the dashboard.

## 1. For Phase 1 Stakers
### How to register your Phase 1 stake to Phase 2

According to the requirements set by the Babylon Foundation, you must convert your Phase 1 staking to 
Phase 2 in order to start earning BABY staking rewards.
The process is as follows:

#### Step 1: Access the Staking Dashboard
Visit the [Babylon Staking](https://btcstaking.babylonlabs.io/) website.
<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/web_app.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/web_app_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### Step 2: Connect Your Wallet
Connect your [compatible wallet](/stakers/btc_stakers/native_staking/web_staking/#compatible-wallets) 
compatible wallet to continue with the staking operation.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### Step 3: Submit the Registration Transaction
Phase 1 stakers need to submit a registration transaction to the Babylon Genesis chain. 
Follow the instructions below to submit your registration transaction in the Babylon BTC
Staking Dashboard:

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/1.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/1_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

- This registration transaction requires a small amount of BABY as a transaction fee.
- The transaction must include the binding of BTC and BABY addresses to activate staking and requires the staker's signature as consent for penalty security.

#### Step 4: Wait for Verification
After submitting the registration transaction, please wait patiently for it to be verified by Babylon Genesis.
<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/2.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/2_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

**Once registered successfully:**
<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/3.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/3_dark.png'),
  }}
/>
- Your staking transaction is successfully registered on the Babylon Genesis.
- From this point forward, your stake will be subject to penalties, with a penalty rate of 0.1%.

## 2. For New Stakers
### How to Register BTC Staking in Phase 2

#### **Step 1: Connect Your BTC and BABY Wallets**

Access the [Babylon Staking Dashboard](https://btcstaking.babylonlabs.io/) and connect your BTC and 
BABY wallets.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### **Step 2: Choose a Finality Provider**

Select the Finality Provider to whom you want to delegate voting rights, enter your staking 
amount, and click "Preview".

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/5.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/5_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/6.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/6_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

Please note that different Finality Providers charge varying commission rates; lower 
commissions mean higher staking rewards.

#### **Step 3: Agree to Penalties and Wallet Binding**

You will need to agree to the penalty terms and bind your wallet. 
The transaction will then be sent to the Bitcoin network.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/7.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/7_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### **Step 4: Wait for Transaction Confirmation**

After your staking transaction is included in the Bitcoin blockchain, you will need 
to wait for 30 blocks to finalize your staking. During this waiting period, the covenant 
committee will pre-sign the transactions as part of the slashing mechanism design.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/8.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/8_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### **Step 5: Send the Staking Transaction**

Once the waiting period is complete, you can click "Stake BTC" and sign the transaction 
via your BTC wallet. After you see the transaction confirmation screen, your stake 
will be active.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/9.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/9_dark.png'),
  }}
/>
**Note:** From this point onward, your stake will be subject to a maximum penalty rate of 0.1%.


## Compatible Wallets

### Browser Extension Wallets

| Wallet Name | BTC | BABY |
|:--|:-:|:-:|
| OKX | ✅ | ❌ |
| Unisat | ✅ | ✅ |
| OneKey | ✅ | ✅ |
| BitGet | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cactus Link | ✅ | ✅ |
| Leap | ✅ | ✅ |
| Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
| Tomo | ✅ | ❌ |
| Fordefi | ❌ | ❌ |
| Xverse | ✅ | ❌ |
| Gate Web3 | ❌ | ❌ |
| Keystone <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ❌ |
| Ledger (via Keplr app) <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ❌ | ✅ |
| OneKey (Pro & Classic 1S) <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ❌ |

### Mobile App Wallets

| Wallet Name | BTC | BABY |
|:--|:-:|:-:|
| OKX | ✅ | ❌ |
| Unisat | ✅ | ✅ |
| OneKey | ✅ | ✅ |
| BitGet | ✅ | ✅ |
| Leap | ✅ | ✅ |
| Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
| Tomo | ✅ | ✅ |
| Xverse | ❌ | ❌ |
| CoinEx | ❌ | ❌ |
| ImToken | ❌ | ❌ |
| Gate Web3 | ✅ | ✅ |
| Coldlar <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge>  | ✅ | ✅ |

Where:
* ✅ - indicates that the wallet is supported by the Babylon Staking web app.
* ❌ - indicates that the wallet is not supported.
* <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> - indicates that the wallet is a hardware wallet.

:::note
The above list is not exhaustive and is subject to change. Please check the official documentation of the staking wallets for the latest information.
:::

## Staking via CLI

Babylon created the stakers-cli tool to allow users to stake via the command line
interface and programmatic control in any operating system.

For details check out [BTC Staker](/stakers/btc_stakers/native_staking/staking_via_cli)

Commit message:

Update web_staking.mdx (#334)
Update web_staking.mdx 
Adding the word "natively" and "native" to the introduction in case this term is of importance as a friendly reminder of what advantages there are choosing to stake with Babylon protocol Line 15 
in the "Introduction" change step by step -> step-by-step is the proper compound adjective Line 16  
Duplication in wording for "Step 2" compatible wallet compatible wallet -> compatible wallet (was written twice) Line 36  
In Step 3 "penalty security" is vague -> "penalty enforcement in the event that slashing occurs" is worded with better explanation Line 61  
Adding to "Step 4" Babylon Genesis -> "Babylon Genesis chain" to keep consistency among document (was used in intro as well) Line 64  
Changing **Note: -> :::note (text) ::: to match with same format and syntax used near the end of the documentation for supported wallets Line 164  
Changed in the last :::note (staking wallets -> supported wallets) ::: for consistency throughout the document and think this is a better term for this explanation Line 213

docs/stakers/btc_stakers/native_staking/web_staking.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: bitcoin_self_custodial_staking_sidebar
sidebar_label: Web Staking
sidebar_position: 1
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import HardwareBadge from '@site/src/components/badge/hardware';

# Staking via web app

Babylon Labs provides a web dApp (BTC Staking Dashboard) for natively staking BTC to the Babylon Genesis chain.
Following is a step-by-step guide to stake native BTC using the dashboard.

## 1. For Phase 1 Stakers
### How to register your Phase 1 stake to Phase 2

According to the requirements set by the Babylon Foundation, you must convert your Phase 1 staking to 
Phase 2 in order to start earning BABY staking rewards.
The process is as follows:

#### Step 1: Access the Staking Dashboard
Visit the [Babylon Staking](https://btcstaking.babylonlabs.io/) website.
<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/web_app.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/web_app_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### Step 2: Connect Your Wallet
Connect your [compatible wallet](/stakers/btc_stakers/native_staking/web_staking/#compatible-wallets) to continue with the staking operation.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### Step 3: Submit the Registration Transaction
Phase 1 stakers need to submit a registration transaction to the Babylon Genesis chain. 
Follow the instructions below to submit your registration transaction in the Babylon BTC
Staking Dashboard:

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/1.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/1_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

- This registration transaction requires a small amount of BABY as a transaction fee.
- The transaction must include the binding of BTC and BABY addresses to activate staking and requires the staker's signature as consent for penalty enforcement in the event that slashing occurs.

#### Step 4: Wait for Verification
After submitting the registration transaction, please wait patiently for it to be verified by Babylon Genesis Chain.
<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/2.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/2_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

**Once registered successfully:**
<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/3.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/3_dark.png'),
  }}
/>
- Your staking transaction is successfully registered on the Babylon Genesis.
- From this point forward, your stake will be subject to penalties, with a penalty rate of 0.1%.

## 2. For New Stakers
### How to Register BTC Staking in Phase 2

#### **Step 1: Connect Your BTC and BABY Wallets**

Access the [Babylon Staking Dashboard](https://btcstaking.babylonlabs.io/) and connect your BTC and 
BABY wallets.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/4_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### **Step 2: Choose a Finality Provider**

Select the Finality Provider to whom you want to delegate voting rights, enter your staking 
amount, and click "Preview".

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/5.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/5_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/6.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/6_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

Please note that different Finality Providers charge varying commission rates; lower 
commissions mean higher staking rewards.

#### **Step 3: Agree to Penalties and Wallet Binding**

You will need to agree to the penalty terms and bind your wallet. 
The transaction will then be sent to the Bitcoin network.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/7.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/7_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### **Step 4: Wait for Transaction Confirmation**

After your staking transaction is included in the Bitcoin blockchain, you will need 
to wait for 30 blocks to finalize your staking. During this waiting period, the covenant 
committee will pre-sign the transactions as part of the slashing mechanism design.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/8.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/8_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

#### **Step 5: Send the Staking Transaction**

Once the waiting period is complete, you can click "Stake BTC" and sign the transaction 
via your BTC wallet. After you see the transaction confirmation screen, your stake 
will be active.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Babylon Staking Web App"
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/9.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/guides/btc_stakers/web_staking/9_dark.png'),
  }}
/>

:::note
From this point onward, your stake will be subject to a maximum penalty rate of 0.1%.
:::

## Compatible Wallets

### Browser Extension Wallets

| Wallet Name | BTC | BABY |
|:--|:-:|:-:|
| OKX | ✅ | ❌ |
| Unisat | ✅ | ✅ |
| OneKey | ✅ | ✅ |
| BitGet | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cactus Link | ✅ | ✅ |
| Leap | ✅ | ✅ |
| Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
| Tomo | ✅ | ❌ |
| Fordefi | ❌ | ❌ |
| Xverse | ✅ | ❌ |
| Gate Web3 | ❌ | ❌ |
| Keystone <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ❌ |
| Ledger (via Keplr app) <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ❌ | ✅ |
| OneKey (Pro & Classic 1S) <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ❌ |

### Mobile App Wallets

| Wallet Name | BTC | BABY |
|:--|:-:|:-:|
| OKX | ✅ | ❌ |
| Unisat | ✅ | ✅ |
| OneKey | ✅ | ✅ |
| BitGet | ✅ | ✅ |
| Leap | ✅ | ✅ |
| Keplr | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ |
| Tomo | ✅ | ✅ |
| Xverse | ❌ | ❌ |
| CoinEx | ❌ | ❌ |
| ImToken | ❌ | ❌ |
| Gate Web3 | ✅ | ✅ |
| Coldlar <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge>  | ✅ | ✅ |

Where:
* ✅ - indicates that the wallet is supported by the Babylon Staking web app.
* ❌ - indicates that the wallet is not supported.
* <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> - indicates that the wallet is a hardware wallet.

:::note
The above list is not exhaustive and is subject to change. Please check the official documentation of the supported wallets for the latest information.
:::

## Staking via CLI

Babylon created the stakers-cli tool to allow users to stake via the command line
interface and programmatic control in any operating system.

For details check out [BTC Staker](/stakers/btc_stakers/native_staking/staking_via_cli)
