docs/api/babylon-gRPC/babylon-grpc-api-docs.info.mdx, before:

---
id: babylon-grpc-api-docs
title: "Babylon gRPC API Docs"
description: "A Babylon gRPC Gateway is a REST interface for Babylon's gRPC."
sidebar_label: Introduction
sidebar_position: 0
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
---

import ApiLogo from "@theme/ApiLogo";
import Heading from "@theme/Heading";
import SchemaTabs from "@theme/SchemaTabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Export from "@theme/ApiExplorer/Export";

<span
  className={"theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary"}
  children={"Version: 1.0.0"}
>
</span>

<Heading
  as={"h1"}
  className={"openapi__heading"}
  children={"Babylon gRPC API Docs"}
>
</Heading>



A Babylon gRPC Gateway is a REST interface for Babylon's gRPC.
This is a merged specification of the Babylon gRPC Gateway and the CometBFT RPC.

**Supported RPC protocols:**
*   URI over HTTP
*   JSONRPC over HTTP
*   JSONRPC over websockets

**Configuration**
RPC can be configured by tuning parameters under "[rpc]" table in the
`$CMTHOME/config/config.toml` file or by using the `--rpc.X` command-line
flags.
The default RPC listen address is `tcp://127.0.0.1:26657`.

**URI/HTTP**
A REST like interface. `curl localhost:26657/block?height=5`

**JSONRPC/HTTP**
JSONRPC requests can be POST'd to the root RPC endpoint via HTTP.
```bash
curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --request POST \
    --data '{"method": "block", "params": ["5"], "id": 1}' \
    localhost:26657
```

**JSONRPC/websockets**
JSONRPC requests can be also made via websocket.
The websocket endpoint is at `/websocket`, e.g. `localhost:26657/websocket`.
Asynchronous RPC functions like event "subscribe" and "unsubscribe" are
only available via websockets.

For example using the [websocat](https://github.com/vi/websocat) tool, you can subscribe for 'NewBlock' events
with the following command:
```bash
echo '{ \
  "jsonrpc": "2.0", \
  "method": "subscribe", \
  "id": 0, \
  "params": {"query": "tm.event='"'NewBlock'"'"} \
}' | websocat -n -t ws://127.0.0.1:26657/websocket  
```

Commit message:

Daria/api spec split (#151)
* update

* api split

* added all rpc options to the api

* rm non fuctional rpc from comet

* rm mint from comet

* fix link

* fix link for testnet

* updated description

---------

Co-authored-by: Daria Agadzhanova <dariaagadzhanova@Darias-MacBook-Air.local>
Co-authored-by: Jenks <me@jenksguo.com>

docs/api/babylon-gRPC/babylon-grpc-api-docs.info.mdx, after:

---
id: babylon-grpc-api-docs
title: "Babylon gRPC API Docs"
description: "A Babylon gRPC Gateway is a REST interface for Babylon's gRPC. This specification documents the RPCs for Babylon specific RPCs."
sidebar_label: Introduction
sidebar_position: 0
hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
---

import ApiLogo from "@theme/ApiLogo";
import Heading from "@theme/Heading";
import SchemaTabs from "@theme/SchemaTabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Export from "@theme/ApiExplorer/Export";

<span
  className={"theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary"}
  children={"Version: 1.0.0"}
>
</span>

<Heading
  as={"h1"}
  className={"openapi__heading"}
  children={"Babylon gRPC API Docs"}
>
</Heading>



A Babylon gRPC Gateway is a REST interface for Babylon's gRPC. This specification documents the RPCs for Babylon specific RPCs.
**Supported RPC protocols:**
*   URI over HTTP
*   JSONRPC over HTTP
*   JSONRPC over websockets

**Configuration**
RPC can be configured by tuning parameters under "[rpc]" table in the
`$CMTHOME/config/config.toml` file or by using the `--rpc.X` command-line
flags.
The default RPC listen address is `tcp://127.0.0.1:26657`.

**URI/HTTP**
A REST like interface. `curl localhost:26657/block?height=5`

**JSONRPC/HTTP**
JSONRPC requests can be POST'd to the root RPC endpoint via HTTP.
```bash
curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --request POST \
    --data '{"method": "block", "params": ["5"], "id": 1}' \
    localhost:26657
```

**JSONRPC/websockets**
JSONRPC requests can be also made via websocket.
The websocket endpoint is at `/websocket`, e.g. `localhost:26657/websocket`.
Asynchronous RPC functions like event "subscribe" and "unsubscribe" are
only available via websockets.

For example using the [websocat](https://github.com/vi/websocat) tool, you can subscribe for 'NewBlock' events
with the following command:
```bash
echo '{ \
  "jsonrpc": "2.0", \
  "method": "subscribe", \
  "id": 0, \
  "params": {"query": "tm.event='"'NewBlock'"'"} \
}' | websocat -n -t ws://127.0.0.1:26657/websocket  
```
