docs/guides/btc_stakers/native_staking/staking_via_cli.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: bitcoin_staking_scripts_sidebar
sidebar_label: Staking via CLI
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Staking via CLI Tools

This guide provides a simplified step by step guide of how to stake, unbond, and
withdraw BTC using the CLI tools.

## BTC-Staker

(BTC-Staker)[https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/btc-staker] is a tool that allows
you to participate in native Bitcoin staking. It also allows operators to do it
programmatically. It consists of two parts:

*   `stakerd`: The background program that manages connections to the Bitcoin
    and Babylon networks.
*   `stakercli`: The command-line tool you use to interact with `stakerd`.

## Prerequisites

*   **Go:** Make sure you have Go version 1.21 or later installed.

## Step 1: Setting Up Your Bitcoin Node

1.  **Download Bitcoin Core:** Download and extract the Bitcoin Core binaries.
2.  **Configure Bitcoin:** Create a `bitcoind.service` file and configure it
    with your RPC username, password, and other settings. Make sure to enable
    the creation of a legacy wallet.
3.  **Start Bitcoin Node:** Start the Bitcoin node using `systemctl`.
4.  **Create a Legacy Wallet:** Create a legacy wallet using the
    `createwallet` command. Make sure to set a wallet name and passphrase.
5.  **Load the Wallet:** Load the wallet using the `loadwallet` command.
6.  **Generate a New Address:** Generate a new Bitcoin address for your wallet
    using the `getnewaddress` command.
7.  **Get Testnet BTC:** Request testnet BTC from the [Discord
    #faucet-signet-btc channel](https://discord.gg/babylonglobal) and send it
    to the address you have generated.

## Step 2: Installing BTC-Staker

1.  **Clone the Repository:** Clone the BTC-Staker repository from GitHub:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/btc-staker.git
    cd btc-staker
    ```
2.  **Checkout a Release:** Choose a specific version from the [official
    releases page](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/btc-staker/releases) and
    check it out:

    ```bash
    git checkout v0.15.4
    ```
3.  **Build and Install:** Build and install the `stakerd` and `stakercli`
    binaries:

    ```bash
    make install
    ```
4.  **Create a Babylon Keyring:** Follow instructions to create baby key-ring,
    then go to [L2Scan Babylon Testnet Faucet](https://babylon-testnet.l2scan.co/faucet)
    to request funds.

## Step 3: Configuring BTC-Staker

1.  **Dump Default Configuration:** Initialize the home directory for the
    Staker Daemon and dump the default configuration file:

    ```bash
    stakercli admin dump-config --config-file-dir /path/to/stakerd-home/
    ```

2.  **Edit `stakerd.conf`:** Edit the `stakerd.conf` file located in your
    stakerd home directory. Pay attention to the following sections:

    *   **\[babylon]:** Configure your Babylon Genesis Chain ID, RPC address, GRPC
        address, and keyring settings.
    *   **\[chain]:** Set the BTC network to `signet` or `mainnet`.
    *   **\[btcnodebackend]:** Set the node type to `bitcoind` and wallet type
        to `bitcoind`.
    *   **\[walletconfig]:** Set the wallet name and passphrase to match what
        you configured in your Bitcoin node.
    *   **\[walletrpcconfig]:** Configure the RPC connection details for your
        Bitcoin wallet.
    *   **\[bitcoind]:** Configure the RPC connection details for your Bitcoin
        node.

## Step 4: Running BTC-Staker

1.  **Start the Daemon:** Start the `stakerd` daemon:

    ```bash
    stakerd --rpclisten 'localhost:15812'
    ```

## Step 5: Staking Operations

### 1. Stake Bitcoin

   1.  **List Finality Providers:** Find the BTC public key of the Finality
        Provider you want to stake to:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon babylon-finality-providers
        ```
   2.  **List Outputs:** Find the BTC address with enough balance:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon list-outputs
        ```
   3.  **Stake:** Stake your Bitcoin:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon stake \
          --staker-address <your_btc_address> \
          --staking-amount <amount_in_satoshis> \
          --finality-providers-pks <finality_provider_btc_pubkey> \
          --staking-time <lock_time_in_blocks>
        ```

### 2. Unbond Staked Funds

   *   **Unbond:** Initiate the unbonding process:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon unbond \
          --staking-transaction-hash <staking_tx_hash>
        ```

### 3. Withdraw Staked Funds

   *   **Withdraw:** After the timelock expires, withdraw your funds:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon unstake \
          --staking-transaction-hash <staking_tx_hash>
        ```

**Important Notes:**

*   Make sure your Bitcoin node is running on the same network as the Babylon
    node (Signet for the testnet, Mainnet for the Babylon Genesis Mainnet).
*   Ensure you are using a legacy (non-descriptor) wallet.
*   You must wait for the timelock to expire before you can withdraw your
    funds.

Commit message:

removed all reference to l2scan

docs/guides/btc_stakers/native_staking/staking_via_cli.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: bitcoin_staking_scripts_sidebar
sidebar_label: Staking via CLI
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Staking via CLI Tools

This guide provides a simplified step by step guide of how to stake, unbond, and
withdraw BTC using the CLI tools.

## BTC-Staker

(BTC-Staker)[https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/btc-staker] is a tool that allows
you to participate in native Bitcoin staking. It also allows operators to do it
programmatically. It consists of two parts:

*   `stakerd`: The background program that manages connections to the Bitcoin
    and Babylon networks.
*   `stakercli`: The command-line tool you use to interact with `stakerd`.

## Prerequisites

*   **Go:** Make sure you have Go version 1.21 or later installed.

## Step 1: Setting Up Your Bitcoin Node

1.  **Download Bitcoin Core:** Download and extract the Bitcoin Core binaries.
2.  **Configure Bitcoin:** Create a `bitcoind.service` file and configure it
    with your RPC username, password, and other settings. Make sure to enable
    the creation of a legacy wallet.
3.  **Start Bitcoin Node:** Start the Bitcoin node using `systemctl`.
4.  **Create a Legacy Wallet:** Create a legacy wallet using the
    `createwallet` command. Make sure to set a wallet name and passphrase.
5.  **Load the Wallet:** Load the wallet using the `loadwallet` command.
6.  **Generate a New Address:** Generate a new Bitcoin address for your wallet
    using the `getnewaddress` command.
7.  **Get Testnet BTC:** Request testnet BTC from the [Discord
    #faucet-signet-btc channel](https://discord.gg/babylonglobal) and send it
    to the address you have generated.

## Step 2: Installing BTC-Staker

1.  **Clone the Repository:** Clone the BTC-Staker repository from GitHub:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/btc-staker.git
    cd btc-staker
    ```
2.  **Checkout a Release:** Choose a specific version from the [official
    releases page](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/btc-staker/releases) and
    check it out:

    ```bash
    git checkout v0.15.4
    ```
3.  **Build and Install:** Build and install the `stakerd` and `stakercli`
    binaries:

    ```bash
    make install
    ```
4.  **Create a Babylon Keyring:** Follow instructions to create baby key-ring,
    then go to You can request test tokens from [Babylon discord server](https://discord.com/invite/babylonglobal)
    to request funds.

## Step 3: Configuring BTC-Staker

1.  **Dump Default Configuration:** Initialize the home directory for the
    Staker Daemon and dump the default configuration file:

    ```bash
    stakercli admin dump-config --config-file-dir /path/to/stakerd-home/
    ```

2.  **Edit `stakerd.conf`:** Edit the `stakerd.conf` file located in your
    stakerd home directory. Pay attention to the following sections:

    *   **\[babylon]:** Configure your Babylon Genesis Chain ID, RPC address, GRPC
        address, and keyring settings.
    *   **\[chain]:** Set the BTC network to `signet` or `mainnet`.
    *   **\[btcnodebackend]:** Set the node type to `bitcoind` and wallet type
        to `bitcoind`.
    *   **\[walletconfig]:** Set the wallet name and passphrase to match what
        you configured in your Bitcoin node.
    *   **\[walletrpcconfig]:** Configure the RPC connection details for your
        Bitcoin wallet.
    *   **\[bitcoind]:** Configure the RPC connection details for your Bitcoin
        node.

## Step 4: Running BTC-Staker

1.  **Start the Daemon:** Start the `stakerd` daemon:

    ```bash
    stakerd --rpclisten 'localhost:15812'
    ```

## Step 5: Staking Operations

### 1. Stake Bitcoin

   1.  **List Finality Providers:** Find the BTC public key of the Finality
        Provider you want to stake to:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon babylon-finality-providers
        ```
   2.  **List Outputs:** Find the BTC address with enough balance:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon list-outputs
        ```
   3.  **Stake:** Stake your Bitcoin:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon stake \
          --staker-address <your_btc_address> \
          --staking-amount <amount_in_satoshis> \
          --finality-providers-pks <finality_provider_btc_pubkey> \
          --staking-time <lock_time_in_blocks>
        ```

### 2. Unbond Staked Funds

   *   **Unbond:** Initiate the unbonding process:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon unbond \
          --staking-transaction-hash <staking_tx_hash>
        ```

### 3. Withdraw Staked Funds

   *   **Withdraw:** After the timelock expires, withdraw your funds:

        ```bash
        stakercli daemon unstake \
          --staking-transaction-hash <staking_tx_hash>
        ```

**Important Notes:**

*   Make sure your Bitcoin node is running on the same network as the Babylon
    node (Signet for the testnet, Mainnet for the Babylon Genesis Mainnet).
*   Ensure you are using a legacy (non-descriptor) wallet.
*   You must wait for the timelock to expire before you can withdraw your
    funds.
