docs/guides/baby_stakers/baby_staking_tools.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_class_name: baby_staking_tools_sidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

# BABY Staking Tools

There are a number of tools and services that will support Babylon BABY Staking.

## Wallets
A list of browser extension and mobile wallets that will support BABY Staking.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="extension" label="Extension Wallets" default>
    | Wallet | BABY Address | BABY Staking | Staking Guides |
    |--------|-------------|--------------|----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ❌ | [Link](https://www.okx.com/en-sg/web3/defi) |
    | Onekey (Hardware) | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Cactus | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Keystone (Hardware) | ✅ | ✅ | [Link](https://support.keyst.one/3rd-party-wallets/cosmos-wallets/keplr-extension) |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ | [Link](https://testnet.keplr.app/chains/babylon-phase-2-testnet) |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Fordefi | ✅ (mainnet only) | ✅ | |
    | Ledger | ✅ | ✅ | Via Keplr |
    | Xverse | ❌ | ❌ | |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Binance | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Coldlar | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Ngrave | ✅ | ❌ | |
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile Wallets">
    | Wallet | BABY Address | BABY Staking | Staking Guides |
    |--------|-------------|--------------|----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ❌ | [Link](https://www.okx.com/en-sg/web3/defi) |
    | Onekey (Hardware) | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ | [Link](https://testnet.keplr.app/chains/babylon-phase-2-testnet) |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Binance | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ❌ | |
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Custody Services

A list of custody services or platforms that will support BABY Staking.

| Custody | BABY Staking |
|---------|-------------|
| Anchorage | ✅ |
| Hex Trust | ✅ |
| Cobo | ❌ |
| Chainup | ❌ |
| Ceffu | ✅ |
| Amber | ✅ |
| Coinbase | ❌ |
| Bitgo | ❌ |

## Exchange

A list of crypto exchanges that will support BABY Staking.

| Exchange | BABY Staking |
|----------|-------------|
| Binance | ✅ |
| Bitrue | ✅ |
| OKX | ✅ |
| Gate | ❌ |
| Bitget | ✅ |
| Bybit | ❌ |
| CoinEX | ✅ |
| Kucoin | ❌ |
| BingX | ❌ |


Where:
- ✅ - indicates the feature is supported.
- ❌ - indicates the feature is not currently supported.

:::note
The above list is not exhaustive and is subject to change. Please check the official documentation of the staking tools for the latest information.
:::

Commit message:

small fixes
- revered web_staking compatibility
- added hardware wallet label

docs/guides/baby_stakers/baby_staking_tools.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_class_name: baby_staking_tools_sidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

# BABY Staking Tools

There are a number of tools and services that will support Babylon BABY Staking.

## Wallets
A list of browser extension and mobile wallets that will support BABY Staking.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="extension" label="Extension Wallets" default>
    | Wallet | BABY Address | BABY Staking | Staking Guides |
    |--------|-------------|--------------|----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ❌ | [Link](https://www.okx.com/en-sg/web3/defi) |
    | Onekey <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Cactus | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Keystone <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> | ✅ | ✅ | [Link](https://support.keyst.one/3rd-party-wallets/cosmos-wallets/keplr-extension) |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ | [Link](https://testnet.keplr.app/chains/babylon-phase-2-testnet) |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Fordefi | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Ledger | ✅ | ✅ | Via Keplr |
    | Xverse | ❌ | ❌ | |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Binance | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Coldlar | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Ngrave | ✅ | ❌ | |
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="mobile" label="Mobile Wallets">
    | Wallet | BABY Address | BABY Staking | Staking Guides |
    |--------|-------------|--------------|----------------|
    | OKX | ✅ | ❌ | [Link](https://www.okx.com/en-sg/web3/defi) |
    | Onekey (Hardware) | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Bitget | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Tomo | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Gate wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Unisat Wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Keplr | ✅ | ✅ | [Link](https://testnet.keplr.app/chains/babylon-phase-2-testnet) |
    | Cosmostation | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Leap wallet | ✅ | ✅ | |
    | Imtoken | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | Binance | ✅ | ❌ | |
    | CoinEX | ✅ | ❌ | |
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Custody Services

A list of custody services or platforms that will support BABY Staking.

| Custody | BABY Staking |
|---------|-------------|
| Anchorage | ✅ |
| Hex Trust | ✅ |
| Cobo | ❌ |
| Chainup | ❌ |
| Ceffu | ✅ |
| Amber | ✅ |
| Coinbase | ❌ |
| Bitgo | ❌ |

## Exchange

A list of crypto exchanges that will support BABY Staking.

| Exchange | BABY Staking |
|----------|-------------|
| Binance | ✅ |
| Bitrue | ✅ |
| OKX | ✅ |
| Gate | ❌ |
| Bitget | ✅ |
| Bybit | ❌ |
| CoinEX | ✅ |
| Kucoin | ❌ |
| BingX | ❌ |


Where:
- ✅ - indicates the feature is supported.
- ❌ - indicates the feature is not currently supported.
- <HardwareBadge>Hardware</HardwareBadge> - indicates that the wallet is a hardware wallet.

:::note
The above list is not exhaustive and is subject to change. Please check the official documentation of the staking tools for the latest information.
:::
