docs/developers/wallet_setup/wallet_setup.mdx, before:

# Babylon Wallet Setup Guide

## Overview

Developers can set up a Babylon wallet using two primary methods:
1. Babylon CLI (Recommended for Power Users)
2. Keplr Browser Extension (Easy Setup)

## Method 1: Babylon CLI Wallet Setup

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.21+
- Git
- Rust 1.84+

### Installation Steps

1. Clone the Babylon Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/babylon.git
cd babylon
git checkout v1.0.0-rc.3
```

2. Install Babylon Binary
```bash
make install
```

3. Verify Installation
```bash
babylond version
# Expected output: v1.0.0-rc.3
```

4. Create Wallet
```bash
babylond keys add my-babylon-key \
  --keyring-backend file \
  --home /path/to/babylon/home
```

**Security Note:** 
- Securely store the generated mnemonic phrase
- This is your ONLY way to recover the wallet

## Method 2: Keplr Browser Extension

1. Install Keplr Wallet
   - Visit [Keplr Website](https://keplr.app/)
   - Follow browser extension installation instructions

2. Add Babylon Network
   - Open Keplr
   - Navigate to network settings
   - Select "Add Chain"
   - Choose `Babylon Phase 2 Testnet` configuration
   - Click "Save"

3. Create a Wallet
   - Open Keplr
   - Click "Create Wallet"
   - Follow the on-screen instructions

## Obtaining Test Tokens

### Faucet Options
- [Babylon Discord Faucet](https://discord.gg/babylonglobal)
- [L2Scan Testnet Faucet](https://babylon-testnet.l2scan.co/faucet)

## Testnet Details
- **Chain ID:** `bbn-test-5`
- **Token Symbol:** BABY
- **Token Denom:** ubbn
- **Network Type:** Cosmos SDK-based

## Best Practices
- Never share your mnemonic phrase
- Regularly backup wallet credentials
- Use strong, unique passphrases for your keyring

## Need Help?
- [Babylon Documentation](https://docs.babylonchain.io)
- [Developer Support Discord](https://discord.gg/babylonglobal)

Happy Building! 🚀

Commit message:

removed all reference to l2scan

docs/developers/wallet_setup/wallet_setup.mdx, after:

# Babylon Wallet Setup Guide

## Overview

Developers can set up a Babylon wallet using two primary methods:
1. Babylon CLI (Recommended for Power Users)
2. Keplr Browser Extension (Easy Setup)

## Method 1: Babylon CLI Wallet Setup

### Prerequisites
- Go 1.21+
- Git
- Rust 1.84+

### Installation Steps

1. Clone the Babylon Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/babylon.git
cd babylon
git checkout v1.0.0-rc.3
```

2. Install Babylon Binary
```bash
make install
```

3. Verify Installation
```bash
babylond version
# Expected output: v1.0.0-rc.3
```

4. Create Wallet
```bash
babylond keys add my-babylon-key \
  --keyring-backend file \
  --home /path/to/babylon/home
```

**Security Note:** 
- Securely store the generated mnemonic phrase
- This is your ONLY way to recover the wallet

## Method 2: Keplr Browser Extension

1. Install Keplr Wallet
   - Visit [Keplr Website](https://keplr.app/)
   - Follow browser extension installation instructions

2. Add Babylon Network
   - Open Keplr
   - Navigate to network settings
   - Select "Add Chain"
   - Choose `Babylon Phase 2 Testnet` configuration
   - Click "Save"

3. Create a Wallet
   - Open Keplr
   - Click "Create Wallet"
   - Follow the on-screen instructions

## Obtaining Test Tokens

You can request test tokens from [Babylon discord server](https://discord.com/invite/babylonglobal).

## Testnet Details
- **Chain ID:** `bbn-test-5`
- **Token Symbol:** BABY
- **Token Denom:** ubbn
- **Network Type:** Cosmos SDK-based

## Best Practices
- Never share your mnemonic phrase
- Regularly backup wallet credentials
- Use strong, unique passphrases for your keyring

## Need Help?
- [Babylon Documentation](https://docs.babylonchain.io)
- [Developer Support Discord](https://discord.gg/babylonglobal)

Happy Building! 🚀
